HTTP Request

There are two types of HTTP messages: requests and responses.

HTTP requests are messages sent by the client to initiate an action on the server.
The HTTP request contains three elements:

    A start line, designed to give basic information on the message
    A header, that adds some information to the message
    A body, which contains the content of the message.


Start line

The start line provides critical information about the message and helps the receiver understand how to read this message.

Here is an example of a start line:

GET /background.png HTTP/1.0

This line can be split into three elements:

    The HTTP method used to send the message (GET), there are several HTTP message types, as we described above.
    The request-target (/background.png) is the path of the file the sender wants to receive.
    The HTTP version (HTTP/1.0), each HTTP version is a bit different; the receiver needs to know this to read the whole message.

The request-target can be both absolute and relative path.


Headers

Headers are designed to provide more information about the request; unlike the start line, this information won’t be used to read the message and understand it.

Headers are just a list of key-values pairs, in a syntax similar to JSON:

header_name: value


Each header has its own applications; here is an example of the header section of an HTTP message:

Host: net.tutsplus.com 
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 6.1; en-US; rv:1.9.1.5) Gecko/20091102 Firefox/3.5.5 (.NET CLR 3.5.30729) 
Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*;q=0.8 
Accept-Language: en-us,en;q=0.5 
Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate 
Accept-Charset: ISO-8859-1,utf-8;q=0.7,*;q=0.7 
Keep-Alive: 300 
Connection: keep-alive 
Cookie: PHPSESSID=r2t5uvjq435r4q7ib3vtdjq120 
Pragma: no-cache 
Cache-Control: no-cache


More on headers


Body

The body is the content of the request. It’s not required, and not every request has a body.
But if you want to send an HTTP message with a body, you need to provide those two headers: Content-Type and Content-Length.

The body can be any data type (HTML, Text, JSON etc..).
Bodies can be broadly divided into two categories:

    Single-resource bodies, consisting of one single file, defined by the two headers: Content-Type and Content-Length.
    Multiple-resource bodies, consisting of a multipart body, each containing a different bit of information. This is typically associated with HTML Forms.

For example, when a user is connecting to a site, he is requesting from the user an HTML code; this code is provided through the body.

Example of a full HTTP request:

GET /hello.htm HTTP/1.1 
User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE5.01; Windows NT) 
Host: www.tutorialspoint.com 
Accept-Language: en-us 
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate 
Connection: Keep-AliveHTTP/1.1 200 OK 
Accept-Ranges: bytes 
Content-Length: 12 
Content-Type: text/html 

Hello world
